welcome to class number one session number two a nano structure is an object that have at least one dimension in the range of 1 to 100 nanometers; in describing Nano structures, it is needed to differentiate between the number of dimensions on the nanoscale. Nanoclusters are structures that are 1 to 100 nanometer in each span Dimension. These structures are categorized as Zero Dimensional Nano structures. Nanotubes and nanowires have a characteristic diameter between 1 and 100 nanometer, and a length that could be much greater than that; these structures are categorized as one-dimensional Nano structures. Nanocomposite surfaces or thin films have a thickness between 1 and 100 nanomer while the other two dimensions are much greater; these structures are categorized as two dimensional. Complex materials finally bulk materials with all Dimensions above 100 nanometer but that contain zero Dimension or one dimension and or two dimensional Nano structures are termed threedimensional Nano structures. We will describe each of these Nano structure in more details in the next sessions; we will start now with defining the Zero Dimensional Nano structure which include basically the nanop particles and the quantum dots. Nanoparticles are defined as small objects that are sized between 1 and 100 nanometers and that behave as a whole unit with respect to its transport properties. Nanoparticles are size dependent namely the properties of the materials change as their size size approaches the nanoscale and as the percentage of the atoms at the surface of the material become significant; the interesting and the unexpected properties of the nanop particles are therefore significantly due to the large surface area of the material which dominates the contributions by made by the small bulk of the material. For the sake of comparison, bulk materials mainly particles larger than one micrometer contain insignificant percentage of atoms at the surface in relation to the number of atoms in the bulk of the same material and therefore they don't behave or exhibit size dependent changes in their physical properties. Nanoparticles often possess unexpected Optical properties as they are small enough to confine their electrons and produce Quantum effects; the size dependent color of the nanop particles was utilized though without any intention by artists as far as the 9th century for generating a glittering effects on the surface of pots or colors in stained glass. The unique physical properties of the nanoparticles allow much higher absorption of solar radiation in photovolatic cells that are composed of nanop particles than in thin films of continuous sheets even that is composed from the same material. Other size dependent properties change include Quantum confinement in semiconductor particles; surface plasma resonance in some metal nanop particles and chemical reactivity that are utilized for image formation and photography field. Now, from the Zero Dimensional Nano structures we will move to one-dimensional structures which include among the rest Nano wires Quantum wires nanor roads and nanot tubes. In nanowire is a nano structure with the diameter of the order of nanometer; alternatively nanowires can be defined as structures that are having a thickness or a diameter constraint to tens of nanometers or less and an unconstrained length at this scales quantum mechanical effects are important and therefore they are coined the term quantum wires. Many different types of Nano wires exist, these include of course metallic nanowires semiconducting nanowires and insulating nanowires; more details about if each of these Nano wires could be seen on the slide and we will explain about these in the next lectures. On the other hand molecular Nano wires are composed of repeating molecular units either orgenic for example DNA or in orgenic material new forms of Nano wires include Corell superlattices nanowires as seen in the bottom figure in the slide. Nanowires have two Quantum confined directions while still leaving One unconfined Direction for electrical conduction basically this feature allows the nanowire to be used in applications where electrical conduction is required and because of their unique density of electron states nanowires in the limit of small diameters are expected to exhibit significantly different Optical electrical and magnetic properties from their bulk threedimensional crystalline counterparts. We will move right now to the carbon non tubes; carbonan tubes are long Hol structure with the walls formed by one atom thick sheet of carbon which we call usually in the scientific literature graphine. These sheets are rolled at specific and discrete chyal angles and the combination of the Rolling angle and the radius decides the nanot tube properties. Individual nanotubes naturally align themselves into ropes held together by the so-called Vander vales forces or more specifically pie stacking; usually the end of the carbon N Tube end with half bucky ball like carbon structure. Carbon tubes have any usual properties which are valuable for the nanotechnology Electronics Optics and other fields of Materials Science and Technology in particular on to their extraordinary thermal conductivity and mechanical and electrical properties. Carbon tubes find applications as additives to various Structural Materials; for instance n tubes form a tiny portion of the material in some of their carbon fiber baseball pads golf clubs or car parts. An in organic nanotube is often composed of metal oxides in organic nanotubes show various advantages such as easy synthetic AIS and high Christianity good uniformity and dispersion pretty defined electrical conductivity good adhesion to a number of polymers and high impact resistance; these materials are therefore prisic candidates as filters for polymer Composites with with enhanced thermal mechanical and electrical properties. In organic nanotubes are heavier than the carbon an tube which we have explained in the last slide and therefore they don't have a strongness under tensil stress but they are particularly strong under compression thus leading to potential applications in Impact resistant applications such as bull roof visits. Two representative examples of inorganic nanotubes include as could be seen on the slide boron nitride nanotubes this case for example or this materal material have a high resistance to oxidation suited for high temperature it has also young modulus of 1.22 terapascal; it's also behaved as a semiconducting material and of course the electronic properties of this material are predictable. And on the other hand I would represent on the same slide uh an example on the Silicon carbon an tubes which have also High resistance to oxidation and it's quite suitable for Harsh environments and can be functionalized with Organic mons on their surfaces. With this we come now to the end of class number one session number two; thank you