Welcome to Class Number One, Session Number Three. In this session, we will continue what we have already started in Session Number Two of Class Number One. Two-dimensional structures include thin films, planner Quantum wells, and superlattices; as could be seen on the screen, a representative example of a thin film is a scanning tunneling microscope image of a self-assembled monolayer of andican thiolate on a gold surface. As seen in the image, the individual molecules are closely packed into a hexagonal array; also, besides that, one can see clearly the features of the assembly and the surface - namely, one can see domain boundaries, which are highlighted with light blue stripes on the figure, and one can see also gold vacancy islands, which can be seen as circular blue spots. In the lower image on the screen, you can see a transmission electron microscopy image of a superlattice, where alternate layers of two different materials exist; in this context, please note that the thickness of each layer is only 2 nanometers. One of the major groups in two-dimensional structures is thin film - namely, a two-dimensional film with a thickness that ranges between 1 to 100 nanometers. When films are very thin, their electronic and optical properties deviate substantially from those of the bulk material; as the material is minimized towards the nano scale, the confining dimension naturally decreases, but the characteristics are no longer averaged by the bulk - the energy spectrum becomes, in this case, discrete and measured by quanta rather than continuous, as in the bulk materials. The confinement of the electrons that exist in these systems changes their interaction with electromagnetic radiation; signifying that electrons are confined in the direction that is perpendicular to the substrate, and thus affect the wave function as well as the density of these states. Similarly, phonons that are confined in the direction that is perpendicular to the substrate affect, therefore, the thermal property. All transport phenomena in two-dimensional structures are highly affected by defects, boundaries, and interfaces that might exist in or at the vicinity of the thin film; more details about all of these effects will be given in the next classes. Now, we will move to three-dimensional structures, which include bulk nanocrystalline as well as nano-composites. Nanostructured bulk materials include several subcategories, which are mentioned in the following: the first subcategory is crystalline materials - in this category, the atoms, molecules, or ions that make up a material are arranged in an orderly repeating pattern; in some cases, the regular ordering can continue unbroken over a large scale, such as in the example of diamonds, where each diamond is only a single crystal. The second subcategory is called poly-crystalline materials - solid objects that are large enough to see and to handle are rarely composed of a single material, but instead are made of a large number of single crystals, known as crystallites, whose size can vary from a few nanometers to several meters; such materials are called poly-crystalline. As mentioned previously, almost all common metals and many ceramics are poly-crystalline in their properties. The third subcategory of this material is called amorphous materials - this category, which we also call non-crystalline solid, is a solid that lacks the long-range order characteristic of a crystalline; indeed, amorphous materials have some short-range order at the atomic length scale due to the nature of chemical bonding. Such solids include, amongst the rest, glass, plastic, and gel. Now, we will move to nano-composites: a nano-composite is a multiphase solid material where one of the phases has one, two, or three dimensions of less than 100 nanometers; in the broadest sense, this definition is more usually taken to mean the solid combination of a bulk matrix and a nano-dimensional phase differing in properties. Due to similarities in structure and chemistry, the mechanical, electrical, thermal, optical, electrochemical, catalytic properties of the nano-composite differ quite significantly from those of the component material. Size limits for these effects have been proposed in the scientific literature and include, among the rest, the following: composites with less than 5 nanometer nano-materials are designated for catalytic activity; composites with less than 20 nanometer nano-materials are designated for making hard magnetic materials; and composites with less than 50 nanometer nano-materials are designated for refractive index changes. Finally, a composite with less than 100 nanometer nano-materials is designated for achieving mechanical strengthening or restricting matrix dislocation movement. Nano-composites might include combinations of organic material and organic material; it also can include a combination of organic and inorganic material, and finally, it can include a combination of inorganic and inorganic materials. This large amount of reinforcement surface area means that a relatively small amount of nano-scale reinforcement can have an observable effect on the macro-scale property of the composite - for example, adding carbon nanotubes improves the electrical and thermal conductivity; other kinds of nano-particulates may result in enhanced optical properties, dielectric properties, heat resistance, or mechanical properties such as stiffness, strength, and resistance to wear and damage. We will come now to the end of Class Number One, Session Number Three - thank you.